>> Woodruff: TODAY'S U.S.
EMPLOYMENT REPORT POINTED TO
SOLID JOB GAINS IN MARCH.
THE PRIVATE SECTOR FINALLY
REGAINED POSITIONS LOST DURING
THE GREAT RECESSION.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, AUTHOR MICHAEL
LEWIS'S LATEST DEEP DIVE INTO
THE FINANCIAL WORLD; THIS TIME,
EXPLORING THE FINANCIAL MARKETS'
EMBRACE OF HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADING.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY--
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: MORE AMERICANS WENT
LOOKING FOR WORK IN MARCH, AND
MORE PEOPLE FOUND IT.
THE LABOR DEPART
REPORTED A NET GAIN OF 192,000
JOBS, ALTHOUGH MANY WERE IN
LOWER-PAYING INDUSTRIES.
REVISED FIGURES ALSO ADDED
37,000 MORE JOBS IN JANUARY AND
FEBRUARY THAN FIRST ESTIMATED.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FOR MARCH
WAS UNCHANGED AT 6.7%.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN GOES LOOKING FOR TRENDS
INSIDE THE NUMBERS IN JUST A
MOMENT.
ON WALL STREET, THE JOBS REPORT
FAILED TO STOP A SELL-OFF DRIVEN
BY SLUMPING TECH STOCKS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 160 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,412.
THE NASDAQ FELL 110 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,127.
AND THE S&P 500 WAS DOWN 23 AT
1,865.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S&P GAINED A FRACTION OF 1%; THE
NASDAQ FELL A FRACTION.
ARMY OFFICIALS AT FORT HOOD,
TEXAS, NOW BELIEVE AN ARGUMENT
MOST LIKELY SPARKED WEDNESDAY'S
MASS SHOOTING.
SPECIALIST IVAN LOPEZ KILLED
THREE SOLDIERS, WOUNDED 16 OTHER
PEOPLE, AND THEN KILLED HIMSELF.
THE BASE COMMANDER, LIEUTENANT
GENERAL MARK MILLEY, SAID TODAY
THAT INVESTIGATORS NO LONGER
THINK MENTAL ILLNESS WAS THE
CAUSE.
>> HIS UNDERLYING MEDICAL
CONDITIONS WE DO NOT BELIEVE ARE
THE DIRECT PRECIPITATING FACTOR
TO THE INCIDENT.
HIS UNDERLYING MEDICAL CONDITION
IS NOT A DIRECT FACTOR.
WE BELIEVE THE IMMEDIATE
PRECIPITATING FACTOR WAS MORE
LIKELY AN ESCALATING ARGUMENT IN
HIS UNIT AREA.
>> Woodruff: THE GENERAL GAVE NO
DETAILS ABOUT THE ARGUMENT.
BUT LOPEZ' FATHER SAID IN A
STATEMENT:
"MY SON COULD NOT HAVE BEEN IN
HIS RIGHT MIND.
HE WAS NOT LIKE THAT."
MEANWHILE, THE ARMY IDENTIFIED
THE THREE MEN WHO DIED.
ALL WERE ACTIVE-DUTY SOLDIERS,
AND ONE HAD JUST RETURNED FROM
AFGHANISTAN.
SUPPORTERS OF GAY MARRIAGE HAVE
WON ANOTHER VICTORY.
AFTER A HEARING TODAY, A FEDERAL
JUDGE IN CINCINNATI ANNOUNCED HE
WILL STRIKE DOWN PART OF OHIO'S
BAN ON SAME-SEX UNIONS.
HE DID NOT ORDER THE STATE TO
ALLOW SUCH WEDDINGS, BUT IT WILL
HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THOSE
PERFORMED ELSEWHERE.
FEDERAL JUDGES HAVE ISSUED
SIMILAR RULINGS IN 7 OTHER
STATES.
THE HUNT FOR MALAYSIA AIRLINES
FLIGHT 370 WENT UNDER WATER
TODAY.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
BEIJING, WHERE RELATIVES OF THE
CHINESE PASSENGERS ARE KEEPING A
CLOSE WATCH.
>> Reporter: IT IS THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT ALL HOPES ARE
PINNED ON IN THE BID TO FIND OUT
WHY FLIGHT 370 JUST DISAPPEARED.
DEVICES OUT FOR THE FIRST TIME
TAKE THE SEARCH BENEATH THE
SURFACE OF THE OCEAN.
THE UNDERWATER SEARCH IS BEING
CARRIED OUT BY A BRITISH AND AN
AUSTRALIAN SHIP ALONG A 150-MILE
TRACK MORE THAN 1,000 MILES OFF
THE COAST OF PERTH.
A GIANT MICROPHONE, A PING
LOCATOR WILL LISTEN OUT FOR A
SIGNAL FROM THE BLACK BOX WHILE
AN UNDERWATER ROBOT SCOURS THE
SEABED FOR WRECKAGE.
BUT THE BATTERY LIFE OF THE
FLIGHT DATA RECORDER CAN RUN OUT
AFTER 30 DAYS POTENTIALLY
LEAVING JUST DICE TO FIND IT.
>> EVERYBODY WANTS TO FIND THAT
DOWNED AIRCRAFT, AND I DON'T
THINK ANYBODY IS WITHHOLDING
ANYTHING IN TERMS OF WHAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE TO DO THE JOB.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT IS NOT
WHAT THE FAMILIES OF MANY
PASSENGERS BELIEVE.
THIS MAN'S ONLY SON WAS ON
BOARD.
HE THINKS THE MALAYSIAN
GOVERNMENT IS WITHHOLDING
INFORMATION.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE MY SON DIED.
I BELIEVE EVERYONE ON BOARD IS
STILL ALIVE.
IT'S A CONSPIRACY.
>> Reporter: THE MALAYSIANS
ARE HAVING TO ACCEPT SCRUTINY
WHILE CONTINUING TO HOPE AND
PRAY FOR THOSE ON BOARD.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS ELECTION
EVE IN AFGHANISTAN, AND IT WAS
MARRED BY A FATAL ATTACK ON A
WESTERN JOURNALIST.
A POLICE COMMANDER SHOT AND
KILLED AN ASSOCIATED PRESS
PHOTOGRAPHER, ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS,
IN EASTERN AFGHANISTAN.
A.P. CORRESPONDENT KATHY GANNON
WAS ALSO SHOT BUT SURVIVED.
THE ATTACK CAME AS NEARLY
200,000 AFGHAN TROOPS DEPLOYED
TO PROTECT POLLING STATIONS FOR
TOMORROW'S PRESIDENTIAL VOTE.
THE POLICE CHIEF IN KABUL SAID
THEY'RE READY.
>> WE ARE DOING OUR BEST TO
ENSURE SECURITY IN CASE THE
ENEMY CARRIES OUT ANY KIND OF
ATTACK IN KABUL.
OUR FORCES HAVE THE ABILITY TO
ELIMINATE THE THREATS QUICKLY
AND PREVENT THEM FROM CREATING
ANY PROBLEMS OR THREATENING OUR
PEOPLE OR OUR ELECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: FINAL RESULTS IN
THE ELECTION ARE NOT EXPECTED
FOR SOME WEEKS.
IN UKRAINE, PRIME MINISTER
ARSENY YATSENYUK WARNED HIS
COUNTRY WILL NEVER ACCEPT
RUSSIA'S ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.
INSTEAD, HE SAID KIEV WILL FOCUS
ON AUSTERITY MEASURES, INCLUDING
RAISING GAS PRICES AND CUTTING
PENSIONS.
HE CALLED IT "THE PRICE OF
INDEPENDENCE" IN THE FACE OF
RUSSIAN ECONOMIC PRESSURE.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WARNED TODAY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS
RE-EVALUATING ITS ROLE IN TRYING
TO FOSTER MIDDLE EAST PEACE
TALKS.
HE SPOKE AFTER A WEEK IN WHICH
THE PALESTINIANS RESUMED SEEKING
U.N. RECOGNITION AND THE
ISRAELIS CANCELED A RELEASE OF
PALESTINIAN PRISONERS.
IN MOROCCO, KERRY SAID IT'S
"REALITY CHECK TIME."
>> THERE ARE LIMITS TO THE
AMOUNT OF TIME AND EFFORT THAT
THE UNITED STATES CAN SPEND IF
THE PARTIES THEMSELVES ARE
UNWILLING TO TAKE CONSTRUCTIVE
STEPS IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
MOVE FORWARD.
BOTH PARTIES SAY THEY WANT TO
CONTINUE.
NEITHER PARTY HAS SAID THAT
THEY'VE CALLED IT OFF.
BUT WE'RE NOT GOING TO SIT THERE
INDEFINITELY.
>> Woodruff: KERRY ORIGINALLY
HOPED FOR A PEACE AGREEMENT BY
THE END OF APRIL.
NOW, HE'S ASKING THE TWO SIDES
JUST TO KEEP NEGOTIATING.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
WHAT'S BEHIND THE JOB GAINS IN
MARCH?
AUTHOR MICHAEL LEWIS ON THE
THREAT OF HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADING;
ON THE EVE OF AFHGAN ELECTIONS,
A LOOK AT HOW WOMEN IN THAT
COUNTRY ARE TREATED;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS;
PLUS, THE DEATH OF AN AWARD-
WINNING PHOTOJOURNALIST IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST JOBS
REPORT IS OUR LEAD FOCUS
TONIGHT.
IT WAS ONCE AGAIN WIDELY AWAITED
FOR WHAT IT TELLS US ABOUT THE
STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF THE
LABOR MARKET.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT,
PAUL SOLMAN, SPENT MUCH OF THE
DAY UNPACKING THE DATA.
HE KICKS OFF OUR COVERAGE, PART
OF HIS ONGOING REPORTING ON
MAKING SENSE OF FINANCIAL NEWS.
>> Reporter: TODAY'S JOBS
HEADLINES FEATURED EMPLOYMENT
GROWTH CHUGGING ALONG IN MARCH,
EMPLOYERS POSTING SOLID JOB
GAINS FOR THE SECOND STRAIGHT
MONTH.
KRISTIN BUTCHER CHAIRS THE
ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT AT
WELLESLEY AND CAME BY THE HOME
OFFICE NEAR BOSTON TO EXPLAIN.
>> WE HAVE SOME REAL BRIGHT
SPOTS IN THIS EMPLOYMENT REPORT.
WE HAVE 192,000 NEW JOBS COUNTED
IN THE ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY, AND
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THERE ARE
REVISIONS UPWARDS FROM THE
PREVIOUS COUPLE MONTHS OF THE
YEAR.
>> Reporter: AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY IS WHEN
THEY ASK EMPLOYERS HOW MANY JOBS
YOU...
>> YES, SO HOW MANY CHECKS ARE
GOING OUT THE DOOR.
AND SO WE HAVE ABOUT 192,000 NEW
JOBS.
WITHIN THAT, THERE'S SOME NICE
THINGS AS WELL, WHICH IS THAT
TEMPORARY BUSINESS SERVICES SEEM
TO BE UP, AND THAT TENDS TO BE A
BELLWETHER BECAUSE TEMPORARY
SERVICES MEAN THAT THEY'RE
HIRING TEMPORARY WORKERS IN
ADVANCE, WE THINK, OF HIRING
FULL TIME WORKERS.
CONSTRUCTION NUMBERS ARE ALSO
UP, AND THOSE TEND TO FORETELL
CHANGES.
CONSTRUCTION TENDS TO BE QUITE
SENSITIVE TO DOWNTURN IN THE
ECONOMY, AND ALSO SENSITIVE TO
UPTURN.
>> Reporter: THE REPORT INCLUDED
A MILESTONE, ACCORDING TO THE
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS--
MORE THAN SIX YEARS AFTER THE
START OF THE GREAT RECESSION,
THE ECONOMY HAS REGAINED ALL THE
PRIVATE SECTOR JOBS THAT WERE
LOST.
BLS COMMISSIONER ERICA GROSHEN.
>> THE PRIVATE SECTOR LOST
8.8 MILLION JOBS DURING THE JOB
MARKET DOWNTURN, AND IT'S NOW
GAINED 8.9 MILLION JOBS SINCE
THE EMPLOYMENT LOW IN FEBRUARY
2010.
>> Reporter: BUT BEHIND THE
HEADLINES, THE POPULATION HAS
CONTINUED TO GROW, AND THUS THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE REMAINS HIGH,
UNCHANGED FROM LAST MONTH.
>> WE HAVE MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
STILL LOOKING FOR WORK WHO HAVE
NOT BEEN ABLE TO FIND IT.
I'M WORRIED THAT THE EMPLOYMENT-
TO-POPULATION RATIO, WHICH IS A
MEASURE OF HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE
JOBS JUST RELATIVE TO THE
POPULATION, HAS REMAINED PRETTY
MUCH THE SAME SINCE LAST YEAR
>> Reporter: IF WE'RE ADDING A
COUPLE HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE,
ALMOST, TO THE TOTAL POPULATION
EVERY MONTH, AND WE'RE ONLY
ADDING ROUGHLY THAT MANY JOBS TO
THE ECONOMY, THEN WE WOULDN'T BE
AFFECTING THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
AT ALL.
>> SO I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
NEED TO SEE MANY MONTHS OF JOB
GROWTH LIKE THE ONE WE SAW
BEFORE THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
COMES DOWN SUBSTANTIALLY, AND
BEFORE THAT EMPLOYMENT-TO-
POPULATION RATIO BEGINS TO COME
UP.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER CAUSE FOR
CONCERN-- "U-7," OUR OWN MORE
INCLUSIVE MEASURE OF UN- AND
UNDER-EMPLOYMENT, WENT UP TO
14.75% IN MARCH, NEARLY 24
MILLION AMERICANS, DRIVEN BY A
BIG JUMP IN THE NUMBER OF PART-
TIMERS LOOKING FOR FULL-TIME
WORK.
AS TO ALL THE TALK ABOUT THE
BRUTAL WINTER'S ECONOMIC IMPACT:
>> THE WEATHER AFFECTS THINGS,
BUT WE SHOULDN'T BE FOCUSING ON
WHAT HAPPENS MONTH TO MONTH IN
THE SHORT TERM ANYWAY, AND THOSE
THINGS GET SMOOTHED OUT.
>> Reporter: BUT WE SHOULD BE
FOCUSING, SAYS PROFESSOR
BUTCHER, ON THE NEARLY 4 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO'VE REMAINED
JOBLESS FOR 27 WEEKS OR MORE.
>> WE HAVE ABOUT A MILLION FEWER
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED THIS YEAR
THAN WE DID AT THIS TIME LAST
YEAR, SO THE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED
HAVE COME DOWN, BUT THE RATE IS
ABOUT THE SAME AND THE AVERAGE
NUMBER OF WEEKS UNEMPLOYED IS
STILL QUITE HIGH.
>> Reporter: IN WASHINGTON, THE
SENATE IS EXPECTED TO PASS AN
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS FOR THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED NEXT WEEK.
HOWEVER, THE MEASURE FACES AN
UPHILL BATTLE IN THE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: AND, IN FACT, LET'S
ZERO IN NOW ON THE PROBLEMS MANY
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED AMERICANS
ARE FACING IN THE LABOR MARKET
AND WHAT CAN BE DONE TO HELP
THEM.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> Sreenivasan: OFER SHARONE IS
A SOCIOLOGIST AT THE M.I.T.
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT WHO'S
TRYING TO HELP TACKLE THESE
ISSUES.
HE CO-FOUNDED THE INSTITUTE FOR
CAREER TRANSITIONS LAST FALL.
IT'S FOCUSED IN PART ON
ASSISTING PEOPLE BETWEEN 40 AND
65 YEARS OLD WITH COLLEGE
DEGREES.
>>A LITTLE
BIT.
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE PROBLEMS
UNIQUE TO THE LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYED?
>> GOOD EVENING, HARI.
YES, TWO THINGS REALLY JUMP OUT.
ONE IS PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
EXPERIENCING A BLACK HOLE.
THEY ARE APPLYING ONLINE,
PUTTING IN TREMENDOUS EFFORT TO
FIND A JOB AND GETTING NO
RESPONSES.
THIS, I THINK, IS PARTLY A
RESULT OF DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
PEOPLE WHO ARE LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYED BY VIRTUE OF THE
DURATION OF THEIR UNEMPLOYMENT.
I CAN SAY MORE ABOUT THAT, BUT
THERE'S ANOTHER EXPERIENCE
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT, WHICH
IS JUST A TOLL ON ONE'S SENSE OF
SELF, THE EMOTIONAL EXPERIENCE
OF LOOKING FOR WORK FOR MONTH
AFTER MONTH AND NOT FINDING IT.
MANY PEOPLE TEND TO START TO
DOUBT THEMSELVES, TO HAVE THE
EXPERIENCE OF SELF-BLAME,
DESPITE THE FACT WE'RE STILL IN
UNPRECEDENTED TERRITORIES SINCE
THE GREAT DEPRESSION FOR
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT, IT'S
EASY TO LOSE SIGHT OF THAT AND
TO FEEL THAT IT'S SOMETHING
YOU'RE DOING.
AND THIS IS A PARTICULARLY
AMERICAN WHITE-COLLAR
PHENOMENON, THAT'S WHAT MY
RECENT BOOK FOCUSED ON, LOOKING
AT HOW, WHEN YOU'RE TRYING TO
AVOID THE BLACK HOLE AND,
INSTEAD, NETWORKING, THIS
BECOMES A HIGHLY PERSONALIZED
PROCESS WITH A LOT OF FOCUS ON
BUILDINGA CHEMISTRY, AND
WHEN YOU HAVE NEGATIVE LABOR
MARKET OUTCOMES, YOU TAKE THE
RESULT PERSONALLY AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: DO THESE
FEELINGS OF SELF-BLAME GET WORSE
THE LONGER YOU'RE UNEMPLOYED?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SO EACH TIME A PERSON TRIES TO
NETWORK, HAS AN INTERVIEW AND
THEN IS UNSUCCESSFUL, THE SENSE
OF MAYBE THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT
ME INTENSIFIES.
I THINK OF IT AS PUTTING MORE
SALT ON AN OPEN WOUND.
IT BECOMES HARDER AND HARDER TO
CONTINUE WITH THE SEARCH AND, IN
SOME CASES, PEOPLE DO STOP
SEARCHING.
I THINK THIS IS A PIECE OF THE
PUZZLE OF WHY WE HAVE THIS
DECLINE IN LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION, WHICH IS ALSO AT
HISTORIC LOW RATES.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S LOOK AT
THE DEMAND SIDE.
DOES THE MARKETPLACE
DISCRIMINATE AGAINST THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED?
YOU AND YOUR PEERS HAVE DONE
RESEARCH ON.
THIS LET'S SAY YOU HAVE ONE
CANDIDATE WHO HAS A JOB WHO
MIGHT NOT HAVE AS MUCH RELATIVE
EXPERIENCE AND ONE CANDIDATE WHO
HASN'T HAD A JOB IN A LONG TIME
BUT WOULD FIT TO WHAT THE
EMPLOYER IS LOOKING FOR, IS
THERE DISCRIMINATION IN THE
MARKETPLACE?
>> YES, I THINK WE HAVE PRETTY
GOOD DATA SHOWING THERE IS
EXACTLY THAT KIND OF
DISCRIMINATION.
THERE IS A WORK OF MY COLLEAGUE,
DID A RESUME AUDIT STUDY,
VIRTUALLY IDENTICAL RESUMES
EXCEPT FOR THE DURATION OF
UNEMPLOYMENT AND MATCH OF SKILL.
IT TURNS OUT THAT PEOPLE WITH A
BETTER MATCH IN TERMS OF SKILL
THAT THE COMPANY IS LOOKING FOR
GET LOWER RATES OF CALL BACK TO
INTERVIEW, MUCH LOWER, THAN
PEOPLE WITHOUT RELEVANT SKILLS
BUT WITH SHORT DURATION OF
UNEMPLOYMENT.
SO THIS IS, IN SOME WAYS, A VERY
SHOCKING FINDING AND I HOPE
EMPLOYERS LISTENING TO THIS PAY
ATTENTION BECAUSE THEY'RE
PASSING UP AND MISSING A LOT OF
GREAT TALENT THAT IS BEING
OVERHOOKED BY THESE KIND OF
PRACTICES.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
ABOUT WHAT IS WORKING.
WHAT ENCOGES THIS LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYED POPULATION?
>> RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE BEEN VERY IMPORTANT
IN THE BOSTON AREA TO FIND A
GROUP OF DEDICATED CAREER
COUNSELORS AND COACHES THAT HAVE
STEPPED UP AND SAID WE WILL
PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR FREE, AND
LET'S SEE WHAT KIND OF SUPPORT
MAKES A DIFFERENCE.
AND WE'RE VERY EARLY IN
ANALYZING THE FINDINGS, BUT I
CAN SAY THAT SUPPORT DOES MAKE A
DIFFEE, OUR
GROUP ARE BEHINDING JOBS AT --
FINDING JOBS AT A HIGHER RATE
THAN THE CONTROL GROUP.
AND I THINK WHAT THEY'RE
REPORTING HELPS.
AT ONE LEVEL, THE SUPPORT IS
TECHNICAL.
THE WAY A COMPANY THAT'S
EXPERIENCING DIFFICULTIES
SELLING A PRODUCT PLAY BRING IN
A CONSULTANT WHO HAS AN EXTERNAL
PERSPECTIVE AND EXPERTISE AND
HELP UNDERSTAND WHAT ARE MY
STRENGTHS, WHERE ARE THE MARKET
DEMANDS FOR THESE STRENGTHS, HOW
CAN I BEST PRESENT MYSELF TO THE
EMPLOYER, ALL THESE THINGS
REALLY DO MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
BUT THERE'S A SECOND LEVEL OF IT
AS WELL WHICH IS THE EMOTIONAL
PART THAT I THINK IS EQUALLY
IMPORTANT.
HERE THE SUPPORT HELPS PEOPLE
DEVELOP A COUNTERNARRATIVE TO
THE EXPERIENCE OF BEING REJECTED
OVER AND OVER, REMINDING THEM OF
THEIR STRENGTH, WHAT HAS LED TO
THEIR SUCCESS IN THE PAST.
>
>> Sreenivasan: AND THEY'RE
USEFUL TO OTHER PEOPLE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
THE GROUP CONTEXT IS
PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT HERE
WHERE PEOPLE SEE ALSO THAT
THEY'RE NOT ALONE IN BEING
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED, THAT THIS
IS NOT SOMETHING NECESSARILY
ABOUT THEMSELVES.
OTHER VERY COMPETENT PEOPLE ARE
IN THE SAME BOAT.
OFER SHARONE, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: OFTEN, WHEN WE
DISCUSS THE FINANCIAL MARKETS,
WE SHOW THESE PICTURES, SHOTS OF
TRADERS ON THE FLOOR OF THE
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, BUT THE
TRADING WORLD CHANGED SEVERAL
YEARS AGO.
MUCH OF IT NOW IS DONE WITH
COMPUTER SERVERS, HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF ORDERS DONE THROUGH
WHAT IS KNOWN AS HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADING.
THIS WEEK, THERE IS A LOT OF
BUZZ ABOUT A PROVOCATIVE NEW
BOOK FOCUSING ON HOW IT HAS
CHANGED AND HOW ONE-THOUSANDTH
OF A SECOND CAN MAKE A BIG
DIFFERENCE.
THE BOOK IS TITLED "FLASH BOYS,"
THE AUTHOR THE MICHAEL LEWIS,
WHO ALSO WROTE "MONE MONEY BALLD
OTHER BOOKS.
WELCOME.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU FOCUS MUCH
OF THE STORY ON THIS NEW YORK
FINANCIAL TRADER WHO STARTS OUT
THINKING THE MARKETS ARE ALL
ABOUT ONE THING, DISCOVERS THAT
THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG, AND
BASICALLY GOES ABOUT TRYING TO
CHANGE EVERYTHING.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: WHY DID YOU FOCUS
ON HIM?
>> BECAUSE I WAS WORKING ON
SOMETHING ELSE AND I NEEDED TO
LEARN WHAT HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADING WAS.
THIS IS A TERM OF ART THAT
DIDN'T EXIST UNTIL THREE OR FOUR
YEARS AGO AND IT WAS MY -- MY
IGNORANCE WAS DEEP ON THE
SUBJECT, AND I ASKED BIG
INVESTORS IF THEY COULD POINT ME
IN THE DIRECTION OF SOMEBODY WHO
KNEW ABOUT THIS.
AND THEY SAID THERE'S THIS YOUNG
MAN, HE'S CANADIAN, WHO'S
BASICALLY RUNNING AROUND
WALL STREET EXPLAINING THIS TO
US AND HE KNOWS MORE ABOUT THESE
MARKETS THAN ANYBODY.
SO YOU OUGHT TO GO SEE HIM.
I WENT TO SEE HIM REALLY JUST ON
BACKGROUND TO SEE WHAT HE COULD
TEACH ME ABOUT THIS AND TURNED
OUT HE WAS ENGAGED IN THIS
ESSENTIALLY ATTEMPT TO REFORM
WALL STREET FROM WITHIN, TO KIND
OF DISCOVER WHAT WAS WRONG WITH
THE STOCK MARKET, HOW PREDATORY
ACTIVITY HAD ARISEN IN THE STOCK
MARKET THAT HE'S BEEN ON THE
WRONG END OF AND EDUCATING
AMERICAN INVESTORS ABOUT WHAT
WAS HAPPENING.
>> Woodruff: SO THE BOOK IS A
NARRATIVE ABOUT HIM BUT ALSO A
MUCH BIGGER STORY.
AND YOU ALSO START OUT WRITING
ABOUT ONE-THOUSANDTH OF A
SECOND, A MILLISECOND AND LAY
THE STORY OF TRYING TO LAY FIBER
OPTIC CABLES THROUGH MOUNTAINS
AND UNDER RIVERS.
WHY DO YOU GET INTO ALL THAT?
>> I FELT THIS STORY WAS IN SOME
WAY A SYMPTOM OF WALL STREET'S
LARGER PROBLEM IN RELATION TO
SOCIETY AND WHY IT'S GONE WRONG.
THE FRACTION OF THE SECOND
REPORT IS THE FRACTION OF SECOND
IS THE ADVANTAGER HIGH FREQUENCY
INVESTORS.
STOCK EXCHANGES MAKE AN AWFUL
LOT OF MONEY BY HIGH FREQUENCY
TRADERS TO BE GIVEN ACCESS TO
SPECIAL INFORMATION AND BANKS
ARE PAID TO EXPOSE THEIR CRUST
MERSE AGAINST HIGH FREQUENCY
TRADERS.
THE SYSTEM SORT OF EVOLVED TO
CREATE INCENTIVES THAT ARE NOT
IN LINE WITH THE LARGER SOCIETY.
>> Woodruff: THE WHOLE PREMISE
OF THE STOCK MARKET IS A PLACE
TO GO WHERE EVERYONE IS SUPPOSED
TO BE TREATED THE SAME BUT MUCH
OF THE POINT OF THE BOOK, AS YOU
SAID, ORDINARY INVESTORS ARE THE
ONES GETTING THE SHORT END OF
THE STICK.
IN FACT, TODAY, WE KNOW THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ERIC HOLDER,
ANNOUNCED THERE'S GOING TO BE A
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATION OF
HIGH-FREQUENCY TRADING.
>> WHAT WAS SO INTRIGUING TO ME
WAS THAT ORDINARY INVESTORS
INCLUDES EVERYBODY FROM THE MOST
SOPHISTICATED HEDGE FUND
MANAGERS RIGHT DOWN TO THE
PERSON SITTING AT THE COMPUTER
TERMINAL AND TRADING ON THEIR
eTrade ACCOUNT.
EVERYBODY WHO DOESN'T HAVE THE
SPEED TO HAVE THE HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADERS, WHO DON'T HAVE THEIR
MACHINES INSIDE THE EXCHANGE
GIVEN PREFERENTIAL ACCESS BY THE
EXCHANGES IS ON THE WRONG SIDE
OF THE TRANSACTION.
SO THAT'S WHY I THINK BRAD IS
ABLE TO CREATE A MOVEMENT IS
HE'S GOT QUITE POWERFUL PEOPLE
ON HIS SIDE.
>> Woodruff: THIS HAS CAUSED A
STIR.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE WRITING AND
TALKING ABOUT IT.
SOME OF THE FINANCIAL
JOURNALISTS ARE WRITING ABOUT
IT, PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE
MARKETS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I'VE READ
THAT THEY'VE SAID IS THAT THE
PEOPLE YOU SAY WHO ARE BEING
HURT THE MOST, THEY SAY ARE
ACTUALLY THE FOLKS WHO -- LET ME
QUOTE HERE, IT'S THE BIG
INVESTORS WHO ARE HURT THE MOST,
THEY'RE THE ONES COMPETING
AGAINST EACH OTHER AND THAT THE
CULPRITS, THEY SAY, ARE THE
STOCK EXCHANGES.
>> I THINK IT'S TRUE THE
EXCHANGES ARE CULPABLE AND
THEY'VE SORT OF ADVOCATED THEIR
RESPONSE TO PROVIDE A FAIR
ENVIRONMENT FOR INVESTORS TO
TRADE IN.
AND THE BANKS ARE ALSO CULPABLE
BECAUSE THEY CONTROL THE STOCK
MARKET ORDER FLOW.
70% OF STOCK MARKET WORKERS GO
THROUGH THE BIG BANKS AND IT'S
HARD TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS TO
YOUR STOCK MARKET OR EVEN IF
YOU'RE A BIG, SOPHISTICATED
INVESTOR.
I THINK THERE'S A PROBLEM.
THE CRITICISM THAT LITTLE PEOPLE
AREN'T HURT, IT'S JUST BIG
PEOPLE, IT DOESN'T MAKE SUCH
SENSE TO ME BECAUSE THE BIG
PEOPLE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ARE
MUCH WALL FUNDS AND PENSION
FUNDS.
THEY'RE INSTITUTIONS.
T. ROW PRICE, THAT MANAGE THE
SAVINGS OF A LOT OF LITTLEOPLE R
TRANSACTIONS ARE BIG BUT THEY'RE
REPRESENTING THE INTERESTS OF
THE AMERICAN INVESTORS AND THE
LITTLE PEOPLE, LIKE YOU IMAGINE
THE GUY SITTING THERE IN HIS
ETrade ACCOUNT, TRADING, YOU
KNOW, 500 SHARES OF SOME STOCK,
HIS ORDERS ARE BEING SOLD BY HIS
BROKER TO SOME HIGH-FREQUENCY
TRADER WHO'S PAYING FOR THE
RIGHT TO TRADE AGAINST IT.
WHY WOULD SOMEONE DO THAT?
THEY'D DO THAT BECAUSE THEY HAVE
A CHANCE TO EXPLOIT THAT ORDER.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEY ALSO
HAVE A CHANCE TO GAIN OFF THE
ORDER.
>> IF THE MARKET GOES UP OR
DOWN, THAT'S A SEPARATE ISSUE.
THE QUESTION IS DO THEY GET A
FAIR MARKET PRICE.
AND THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE WAY
THE MARKET WORKS NOW, INVESTORS
GENERALLY, FROM MOST
SOPHISTICATED TO THE SMALLEST,
ARE ESSENTIALLY OPERATING WITH
YESTERDAY'S PRICES.
SO --
>> Woodruff: BECAUSE THE
MARKET --
>> BECAUSE THEY'RE MOVING SO
FAST.
SO THE PEOPLE TRADING AGAINST
THEM, THE HIGH FREQUENCY TRADERS
HAVE TODAY'S PRICES.
SO IMAGINE YOU HAD THE RESULTS
OF THE HORSE RACE BEFORE THE
RACE WAS RUN AND YOU CAN WALK
INTO THE TRACK AND MAKE BETS
AGAINST PEOPLE ABOUT THE RACE.
THAT'S NOT REALLY A FAIR
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME JUST READ
ONE OTHER CRITIQUE OF THE BOOK
AND THAT IS WHAT YOU'RE WRITING
ABOUT, ACCORDING TO A COUPLE OF
FINANCIAL JOURNALISTS WHO EVE EE
READ, HAPPENED SIX YEARS AGO.
HIGH FREQUENCY TRADING, THE
PROFITS DROPPED FROM 8 BILLION
TO 1 BILLION -- IN OTHER WORDS,
THAT YOU'RE BEHIND THE CURVE
WITH THIS.
>> THIS IS SO -- THIS IS NOT
TRUE.
IT'S TRUE THAT THE MAIN
CHARACTER OF THIS BOOK -- AND
THE INVESTORS WHO ARE CONCERNED
START TO SEE PROBLEMS IN THE
MARKET ABOUT 2008, SO IT'S TRUE
THAT IT'S THE FIRST TIME THEY
SENSED THAT WHENEVER THEY TRADE
SOMEONE HAS ANTICIPATED WHAT
THEY'RE DOING AND RUNNING IN
FRONT OF THEM.
BUT FIRST, NO ONE ACTUALLY KNOWS
HOW MUCH HIGH-FREQUENCY TRADERS
ARE MAKING.
THE ESTIMATES ARE USUALLY SMOKE
AND MIRRORS WHO HAS SOME TYING
TO HIGH-FREQUENCY TRADERS.
THEY DON'T RELEASE THEIR
PROFITS.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THEIR PROFITS
ARE LESS THAN THEY MAY HAVE BEEN
A FEW YEARS AGO BUT ARE NOT
SMALL.
THEY'RE CERTAINLY NOT A BILLION
DOLLARS BUT IF THEY'RE LESS IT'S
BECAUSE THE BANKS GOT BETTER AT
BILLING THEM.
THE REVENUES ARE THE SCALP, HOW
MUCH THEY'RE TAKING OUT.
THE BIGGER PROBLEM IS THE WHOLE
STRUCTURE OF WALL STREET HAS
BEEN COMPROMISED OF THE STOCK
MARKET HAS BEEN COMPROMISED TO
SERVE THE INTEREST TO HAVE THE
HIGH-FREQUENCY TRADERS AND THE
RESULT OF THE MARKET IS MUCH
LESS STABLE THAN IT SHOULD BE.
SO WE GET FLASH CRASHES AND
I.P.O.s THAT DON'T WORK AND
OUTAGES AT THE EXCHANGES.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT YOU WANT
FROM THIS BOOK IS WHAT, MICHAEL?
>> I WANT REFORM OF THE MARKET
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE, THE STOCK
MARKET, BUT I THINK IT'S A
BIGGER ISSUE THAN THAT.
I THINK THIS CANADIAN KID IS
ACTUALLY ENGAGED IN TRYING TO
REPAIR WALL STREET'S
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE REST OF
THE SOCIETY BY CREATING THE
PROFFERS REPLACED LIKE A STOCK
EXCHANGE.
SO I THINK IT'S TO RESTORE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SOCIETY AND
WALL STREET.
>> Woodruff: WITH A DIFFERENT
FINANCIAL MECHANISM.
>> YES, A DIFFERENT MODEL.
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL LEWIS,
THE BOOK IS A WALL STREET
REVOLT, FLASH BOYS.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEKEND'S
ELECTIONS IN AFGHANISTAN ARE
EXPECTED TO PRODUCE THE
COUNTRY'S FIRST DEMOCRATIC
TRANSFER OF POWER.
AND IN ONE SIGN OF SOCIAL
PROGRESS, HUNDREDS OF WOMEN ARE
RUNNING FOR PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
SEATS.
AFGHANISTAN, HOWEVER, REMAINS A
HOSTILE PLACE TO MANY WOMEN.
THOUSANDS HAVE BEEN HELD IN JAIL
OR "SAFE HOUSES," ACCUSED OF
"MORAL CRIMES" SUCH AS REFUSING
TO ACCEPT FORCED MARRIAGES OR
RUNNING AWAY FROM ABUSIVE
HUSBANDS.
THAT'S THE FOCUS OF THIS REPORT
FROM THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING AND
FILMMAKER ZOHREH SOLEIMANI.
IT'S NARRATED BY AMANDA PIKE.
FILMMAKER ZOHREH SOLEIMANI
HAS BEEN COVER THE ISSUE OF
WOMEN'S RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN
FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
SHE'S REPORTED PROGRESS FOR
WOMEN SINCE THE FALL OF THE
TALIBAN IN IN 2001.
BUT TODAY WOMEN'S RIGHTS AND
SECURITY ARE UNDER ASSAULT FROM
ALL SIDES.
TALIBAN INSURGENTS, TRIBAL
WARLORDS, EVEN MEMBERS OF
PARLIAMENT.
KALED IS A SPOKESPERSON FOR A
GOVERNOR AND PROMINENT ADVOCATE
FOR AFGHAN WOMEN'S RIGHTS.
>> I RECEIVED THREATS.
THESE DAYS, THE ENEMY IS FOCUSED
ESPECIALLY ON WOMEN.
THE ENEMY NEVER WANTS WOMEN IN
AFGHANISTAN TO ADVANCE.
>> Reporter: SOLEIMANI WENT TO
A SAFE HOUSE, FOR WOMEN WHO
ESCAPED ABUSE OR FORCED
MARRIAGES.
>> HELLO, I'D LIKE TO HEAR ABOUT
YOUR CASES.
MADER, DESCRIBE YOUR PROBLEM FOR
ME.
>> MY PROBLEM IS MY
BROTHER-IN-LAW.
HE RAPED ME IN MY FATHER'S
HOUSE.
HE ALSO RAPED MY 12-YEAR-OLD
SISTER.
FOR THE NEXT TWO AND A HALF
YEARS, MY FAMILY WOULDN'T LET ME
LEAVE THE HOUSE.
FINALLY, I ESCAPED AND CAME TO
THE SAFE HOUSE.
>> WHAT DO YOUR PARENTS SAY?
I TOLD MY MOM AND SHE SAID, I
T THAT.
IF I HAD TOLD MY FATHER, HE
WOULD HAVE BEATEN ME.
MY MOTHER SAID, WHAT'S DONE IS
DONE.
I'M NOT STRONG ENOUGH TO DO
ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
>> I HOPE THAT PEOPLE LIKE THE
MAN WHO RAPED THIS WOMAN WILL BE
ARRESTED SOON AND FORCED TO FACE
THE CONSEQUENCES OF THEIR
ACTIONS.
>> A YOUNG WOMAN BASIRA CAME TO
THE SAFE HOUSE TO ESCAPE A
FORCED MARRIAGE.
>> I LOVED A YOUNG MAN BUT MY
FATHER WOULD NOT LET ME MARRY
HIM AND FORCED ME TO MARRY
SOMEONE ELSE.
I WENT TO MY HUSBAND'S HOUSE.
HE BEAT ME AND SCREAMED AT ME
ALL THE TIME.
I TOLD MY FATHER, I DON'T WANT
THIS MAN.
WHY DID YOU MARRY ME TO HIM?
WHY DID YOU MARRY ME AWAY THAT
NIGHT?
YOU SHOULD HAVE KILLED ME AND
BURIED ME IN YOUR GARDEN RATHER
THAN MARRY ME TO HIM.
PARENTS WHO DON'T WANT THE
HAPPINESS OF THEIR CHILDREN, I
LOVE THEM SO MUCH AND STILL LOVE
THEM.
THEY DON'T EVEN COME TO ASK
ABOUT ME.
THEY DON'T ASK IF THEIR DAUGHTER
IS ALIVE OR DEAD.
>> MANISHA MADIRI RUNS A NETWORK
OF SAFE HOUSES THROUGHOUT
AFGHANISTAN.
WE MET WITH HER ON A RECENT
VISIT TO WASHINGTON, D.C.
SHE RECALLS A TIME IN THE
1960s AND '70s WHEN
AFGHANISTAN WAS A VERY DIFFERENT
PLACE.
>> AFGHANISTAN WAS BEING CALLED,
YOU KNOW, LITTLE PARIS.
IT WAS VERY MODERN FOR THAT
REGION.
WOMEN WERE IN SCHOOLS, WOMEN
WERE IN UNIVERSITIES.
THEY WERE WALKING AROUND LIKE
WOMEN HERE, WEARING SKIRTS,
PANTS, WHATEVER THEY WANTED.
>> BUT NADIRI SAYS 30 YEARS OF
WAR HAVE ERODED RIGHTS FOR
WOMEN.
TODAY, TRIBAL TRADITIONS ARE
GAINING STRENGTH, MOST NOTABLY
CASES OF FATHER FORCING THEIR
DAUGHTERS INTO EARLY MARRIAGE.
>> IN SOME PARTS OF THE COUNTRY
IT'S A WAY OF LIFE, REALLY.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE NUMBERS
ARE, PROBABLY THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
WOMEN.
THE GIRLS WHO HAVE BEEN GIVEN
AWAY DON'T HAVE A VOICE OR A WAY
TO PROTEST, AND THE FATHER, HE'S
THE FATHER.
HE COULD FORCE THE GIRL TO MARRY
AT WHATEVER AGE HE WANTS.
IN THE MAJORITY OF CASES, THEY
THINK THIS IS THEIR GOD-GIVEN
RIGHT.
>> Reporter: MANY GIRLS RUN
AWAY FROM FORCED MARRIAGES AND
ABUSIVE HUSBANDS.
IF DISCOVERED, THEY CAN END UP
IN PRISONS LIKE THIS ONE IN
KABUL.
>> MY NAME IS SOHALA.
I RAN AWAY WITH THE MAN I LOVED
AND LIVED WITH HIM THREE AND A
HALF YEARS.
MY FATHER FOUND ME, HAD ME
ARRESTED AND I WAS SENTENCED TO
SIX YEARS IN PRISON.MY SON WAS .
>> THIWHEN THIS GIRL WAS FIVE YS
OLD HER FATHER PLEDGED HER IN
MARRIAGE TO AN OLD MAN TO SETTLE
A BLOOD FEUD BETWEEN THEIR
FAMILIES.
WE FIRST MET SOHALA SEVERAL
YEARS AGO.
HER FATHER WAS UNAPOLOGETIC FOR
PUTTING HER IN PRISON.
>> ISLAM DOES NOT LET HER DO
WHATEVER SHE WANTS.
SHE MUST MARRY WHOEVER SHE
CHOOSES.
ISLAM SAYS WHENEVER A MAN WANTS
TO MARRY AWAY HIS DAUGHTER,
EIGHT, NINE, TEN, DOESN'T
MATTER, THE WOMAN BELONGS TO HIM
AND HAS NO RIGHT TO REFUSE.
>> BUT NADIRI SAYS THIS IS A
TRIBAL CUSTOM, NOT ISLAMIC LAW.
>> THE MEN HAVE NEVER HEARD IT'S
AGAINST ISLAM TO FORCE YOUR
DAUGHTER TO GET MARRIED.
>> IN 2012, PRESIDENT KARZAI
RELEASED SOLAHALA FROM JAIL AS
PART OF AMNESTY FOR WOMEN BUT
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE FOR HER TO GO
HOME.
SHE'S BEEN LIVING IN A SAFE
HOUSE RUN BY NADIRI'S
ORGANIZATION.
>> MY FATHER DOESN'T RECOGNIZE
GOVERNMENT LAWS.
HE ONLY RECOGNIZES TRIBAL LAW.
>> NADIRI AND HER LAWYERS ARE
TRYING TO HELP SOHALA OBTAIN A
DIVORCE FROM HER ARRANGED
MARRIAGE.
YOU WENT HOME ONCE.
WHAT HAPPENED?
>> SIX MONTHS AGO, I WENT TO MY
FATHER'S HOUSE WITH MY DIVORCE
PAPERS FROM THE COURT.
THEY ALL ATTACKED ME AND STARTED
BEATING ME.
>> WE TOOK A POLICE ESCORT WITH
US BECAUSE WE KNEW IT WAS A
DANGEROUS SITUATION.
AS SOON AS THEY SAW HER, THE
WOMEN IN THE FAMILY STARTED TO
ATTACK HER.
THE MEN IN THE FAMILY CAME OUT
WITH GUNS, THEY WERE SHOOTING IN
THE STREETS, AND THE POLICE HAD
TO WHISK HER AND TAKE HER AWAY
IN ORDER TO SAVE HER LIFE.
>> FILMMAKER ZOHREH SOLEIMANI
WAS ABLE TO CONVINCE SOHALA'S
FATHER AND BROTHER TO MEET WITH
HER.
HER BROTHER STARTED THE BLOOD
FEUD BY ELOPING WITH THE OLD
MAN'S WIFE, THE MAN SOHALA WOULD
BE FORCED TO MARRY TO AVENGE HER
BROTHER'S CRIME.
HER BROTHER REFUSES TO LET
SOHALA MARRY THE MAN SHE LOVES.
>> IF SHE GOES WITH THAT DONKEY
OF A MAN, SHE WILL BE KILLED.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID OF DYING.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID OF BEATING.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID OF KILLING.
FOR US, IT'S LIKE KILLING A
SPARROW.
IT'S NOTHING.
>> I THINK THE ONLY OPTION SHE
HAS IS TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY.
EITHER GO TO A NEIGHBORING
COUNTRY OR SOME OTHER COUNTRY,
BUT IF SHE STAYED IN
AFGHANISTAN, I'M PRETTY SURE HER
FATHER OR BROTHER WILL FIND HER
AND KILL HER.
WWE HAVE OTHER CASES THAT ARE
MORE DANGEROUS THAN HERS.
OUR WORK IS VERY CONTROVERSIAL.
WE HAVE RESISTANCE FROM ALL
OVER.
THE TALIBAN IS AN OBVIOUS THREAT
BUT ALSO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT,
THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE MAYBE A
YEAR AGO WENT IN FRONT OF
PARLIAMENT AND WAS CALLING
SHELTERS BROTHELS.
HE EVENTUALLY APOLOGIZED BUT
SHOWS HOW PEOPLE THINK.
>> AS THE COUNTRY PREPARES FOR
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS AND THE
U.S. AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL
FORCES AIM TO WITHDRAW LATER
THIS YEAR, MANY WONDER WHAT KIND
OF FUTURE LIES AHEAD FOR YOUNG
WOMEN LIKE SOHALA AND THE YOUNG
WOMEN WHO WORK TO PROTECT THEM.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS-- THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
GENT MIN, I HAVE TO SAY BEFORE
WE START TALKING, THAT WAS A
VERY DIFFICULT REPORT TO WATCH.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE SUPREME
COURT DECISION THIS WEEK.
DAVID CLOSELY COURT 5-4 RULE
THAT THERE SHOULD BE NO LIMITS
ON THE TOTAL AMOUNT DONORS CAN
GIVE TO POLITICAL CANDIDATES AND
PARTIES.
WHAT DID YOU MAKE TO HAVE THE
DECISION WITH THE MAJORITY AND
MINORITY JUSTICES.
>> I SEE A SILVER LINING.
MY VIEW IS THAT FOR 40 YEARS
WE'VE HAD THESE CAMPAIGN FINANCE
REFORMS AND THEY HAVE BEEN
FAILURES.
MONEY IS COURSING THROUGH OUR
SYSTEM MORE THAN EVER BEFORE,
INCUMBENTS USE THE LAWS TO
ADVANTAGE THEMSELVES AND ONE OF
THE REASONS I THINK THEY HAVE
BEEN FAILURES IS WE'VE TRIED TO
CRUSH MONEY IN PLACES LIKE
POLITICAL PARTIES AND IT
SQUISHED INTO OPAQUE SUPER PACS
AND SORT OF HIDDEN CHANNELS.
SO WE'VE WEAKENED THE PARTIES
AND STRENGTHENED THE SPECIAL
INTERESTS AND I THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS THIS DECISION DOES IN A
SMALL WAY IS STRENGTHENS THE
PARTY ESTABLISHMENTS.
SO THE PARTY ESTABLISHMENTS
WHICH ARE MORE TRANSPARENT THAN
THE SUPER PACS, MORE
ACCOUNTABLE, WHICH INVOLVE MORE
PEOPLE, WHICH HAVE NATIONAL
COALITIONS ARE STRENGTHENED BY
THIS DECISION.
SO I THINK IT'S IN SOME SMALL
WAY A STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION BECAUSE THE WAY TO
SOLVE ALL THE MONEY IN POLITICS
IS NOT TO PRETEND WE CAN GET
MONEY OUT OF POLITICS.
THAT WILL NEVER HAPPEN.
WE HAVE TO CHANNEL IT IN WAYS TO
SEE IT AND HOLD IT ACCOUNTABLE
AND I THINK THE PARTIES ARE THE
BEST VEHICLE FOR THAT.
>> Woodruff: MARK, STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
TO REVISIT THE HISTORICAL
RECORD.
FROM 1976 TO 199 #, WE HAD SIX
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, AND IT
WAS RUN UNDER THE CAMPAIGN
FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 1974.
IN ALL SIX OF THEM, EVERY
CANDIDATE AGREED TO LIMITS OF
WHAT HE COULD COLLECT IN
CONTRIBUTIONS AND WHAT HE COULD
SPEND IN SEEKING A NOMINATION,
AND THEY ALL ABIDED BY IT, AND
THE REALITY -- THEN EACH OF THEM
ON AND THEY COULDUNDING FOR THE
COLLECT NO OTHER.
THAT'S SIX PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS DURING WHICH WE HAD
INCUMBENT DEFEATED IN 1976, AN
INCUMBENT DEFEATED IN 1980 AND
LATER AN INCUMBENT DEFEATED IN
191992.
SO IT WASN'T INCUMBENT
PROTECTION ACT.
RONALD REAGAN FOUR TIMES
ACCEPTED THE LIMITS AND
CONTRIBUTIONS OF WHAT HE COULD
TAKE, WHAT HE COULD SPEND
PUBLIC FUNDING FOR THE GENERAL
ELECTIONS.
SO I JUST THINK THE IDEA THAT IT
DIDN'T WORK, IT DID WORK.
IT WORKED BRILLIANTLY.
GEORGE W. BUSH CHANGED IT IN
2000 WHEN HE WENT TO PRIVATE
FINANCING FOR THE NOMINATION BUT
ACCEPTED PUBLIC FUNDING IN THE
GENERAL AND, QUITE FRANKLY, SO
DID -- IT WAS BROKEN IN 2008
WHEN BARACK OBAMA DECIDED HE
WASN'T GOING TO DO THAT.
I SAY THAT BECAUSE, GOING TO THE
CHIEF JUSTICE, THERE IS NOTHING
MORE BASIC TO OUR DEMOCRACY THAN
THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN
ELECTING OUR POLITICAL LEADERS,
AND I WISH THEY FELT THE SAME
WAY ABOUT VOTING RIGHTS, WHICH
THEY DIDN'T.
SOMEHOW THIS GIVING -- THESE
PEOPLE, THESE FIVE MAJORITY
JUSTICES MUST BE HER METICLY
SEALED.
THEY ARE UNAWARE OF THE FACT
THAT BIG MONEY BUYS ACCESS IN
WASHINGTON AND ACCESS PURCHASES
INFLUENCE, IT IS AS SIMPLE AS
THAT AND THEY HAVE BASICALLY
GIVEN A GREEN LIGHT, A FURTHER
GREEN LIGHT AFTER CITIZENS
UNITED TO THE BIGGEST MONEY, TO
HAVE THE BIGGER VOICE IN OUR
POLITICS AND SOUND OUT AND DROWN
OUT THE VOICE OF JUST ORDINARY
CITIZENS.
>> JUST FIRST ON THE HISTORICAL
RECORD, I AGREE WITH MARK ABOUT
THE PRESIDENCY.
I THINK THE PRESIDENCY IS A BAD
WAY TO MEASURE THE EFFECTIVE
CAMPAIGN FINANCE BECAUSE IN THE
PRESIDENCY THERE IS SO MUCH
PUBLICITY, SO MUCH MONEY
FLOATING AROUND, EVERYONE'S GOT
A LOT OF MONEY AND PUBLICITY.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE HOUSE AND
SENATE RACES, IN THE 1970 WHEN
WE STARTED THIS LAST CHAPTER OF
CAMPAIGN FINANCE, THE INCUMBENTS
HAD ON AVERAGE $3 FOR EVERY $2
FOR THE CHALLENGER, 3 TO 2.
NOW 4 TO 1 OR 5 TO 1.
THE INCUMBENTS HAVE A TON MORE
MONEY BECAUSE THEY RIG THE
SYSTEM TO HELP THEMSELVES
BECAUSE THEY HAVE NETWORKS OF
SMALL DONORS.
NOW THE AMOUNT OF INCUMBENTS
REELECTED IS GOING UP AND UP.
IT'S A LOT SAFER TO BE AN
INCUMBENT.
SO I THINK THEY'VE USED THE
CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORMS, PASSED
LAWS TO HELP THEMSELVES STAY IN
OFFICE AND I THINK THAT'S ONE TO
HAVE THE FLAWS THAT WE HAVE IN
THE SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU THINK
THAT'S GOING TO CHANGE?
>> WELL, ON THE SEPARATE ISSUE
OF THIS PARTICULAR DECISION,
I -- YOU KNOW, I WANT TO LIMIT
THE EFFECTS OF THE POWER OF
DONORS.
NO QUESTION ABOUT IT.
ROBERTS' OPINION DOESN'T STRIKE
ME AS STUPID.
I'M NOT SURE I'D AGREE WITH HOW
IT'S GOING TO SHAKE OUT.
THE OPINION IS IF YOU WANT TO
GIVE TO ONE OR FIVE CANDIDATES,
WHY SHOULDN'T YOU HAVE THE RIGHT
TO GIVE TO 20 CANDIDATES.
HE'S SEEING IT FROM FREE SPEECH
GROUNDS.
DOESN'T SEEM RATIONAL TO SAY IF
YOU CAN GIVE TO TWENTY, YOU CAN
GIVE TO FIVE.
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE'S NOT A
LIMIT ON INDIVIDUALS.
>> THE WAY IT STRENGTHENS THE
PARTIES, IT RAISES CAPS WE CAN
GIVE TO THE PARTY AND THE PARTY
CAN CREATE JOINT SUPER
COMMITTEES POOLING MONEY AND
DECIDING WHICH CANDIDATES TO
GIVE IT TO.
>> CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS AND THE
MAJORITY JUST APPARENTLY ARE
OBLIVIOUS TO THE ROBBER BARONS
OF THE 19 # 0s, THE WATERGATE,
THE SOFT MONEY SCANDAL OF 19
AND THE INFLUENCE OF MONEY.
THEIR LIMITATION, THEIR NARROW
DEFINITION OF CORRUPTION IS A
BRIBE.
I GIVE YOU $10 AND SAY I WANT
YOUR VOTE ON THE TEACHER'S BILL,
AND YOU AGREE.
I MEAN, IT HAS TO BE THAT.
AND I JUST HAVE TO READ
SOMETHING.
ALL RIGHT.
JOE SCARBOROUGH DOES THE MORNING
JOE, WAS A MEMBER OF CONGRESS
FROM FLORIDA FROM 1995 TO 2001.
AND AFTER HE LEFT THE CENTER FOR
RESPONSIVE POLITICS, ALL TALKED
TO INSIDERS, AND THEY AND JOE
HAD THIS TO SAY, THE LOBBY OVER
CHINA WAS DISGUSTING THERE'S NO
WAY MFN WOULD HAVE PASSED IN
'95, '96 TO 2000 IF ALL THESE
COMPANIES HADN'T COME IN
FLOODING AND MAKING CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS AND ASKING FOR
PEOPLE'S SUPPORT.
THAT DROVE THE DEBATE EVERY YEAR
WITH THE ALLURE OF CORPORATE
DOLLARS FLOODING INTO MEMBERS'
BANK ACCOUNTS.
QUITE BLUNTLY, I SAW MONEY
CHANGE VOTES.
I MEAN, THEY JUST SEEM UNAWARE
OF THIS THAT MONEY IS -- THAT
THEY WANT TO SEE THE APPEARANCE
OF CORRUPTION.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS LOOK IN
LAS VEGAS LAST WEEKEND.
YOU HAD FIVE REPUBLICAN FORMER
GOVERNORS SHOWING UP ATLDON
TO BEG FOR HIS SUPPORT.
THEY DEBASED THEMSELVES --
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNOR OF
OHIO.
>> SHELDON, THANK YOU FOR
INVITING ME, GOD BLESS YOU FOR
WHAT YOU'RE GOING, FOR
$93 MILLION?
>> I HAVE STUDIES THAT SHOW THE
REASON WASHINGTON REAL ESTATE IS
BOOMING AND THERE ARE SO MANY
LOBBYISTS IN TOWN, IT PAYS.
THE CORPORATION WHO IS INVEST IN
LOBBYISTS, PAYS IN TERMS OF TAX
LOOPHOLES AND SUBSIDIES, IT
PAYS.
THE SHELDONS, KOCH BROTHERS, WE
WANT TO FORCE THEM INTO THE
PARTIES.
NOT THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO KISS
UP TO SPECIAL INTERESTS, BUT SO
THE PARTIES HAVE THE POWER AND
CAN DIRECT THE MONEY.
AT LEAST THEY HAVE A NATIONAL
CONSTITUENCY.
AT LEAST THEY HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT NATIONAL MAJORITIES.
>> IF LIMITATIONS WORKED FOR
RONALD REAGAN FOUR DIFFERENT
TIMES, IF HE COULD ACCEPT IT AND
WIN AN ELECTION IN AN
EQUALLY-FUNDED GENERAL ELECTION,
THAT IS, TO ME, THE GOLDEN
PERIOD OF AMERICAN POLITICS FROM
1976 UP TO 199  1996 AND REALLYO
2008, BASICALLY, WHEN WE DID
HAVE PUBLIC FUNDING.
IT WOULD BE SO MUCH CHEAPER FOR
AMERICAN PEOPLE IF WE HAD PUBLIC
FUNDING FOR ELECTIONS.
>> I'M A LITTLE NERVOUS ABOUT
PUBLIC FUNDING.
IT'S BETTER THAN WHAT WE HAVE
NOW.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO LEAVE
TIME FOR BASEBALL.
QUICK QUESTION ON THE HEALTHCARE
LAW.
DID THE ADMINISTRATION GET
7.1 MILLION AMERICANS TO SIGN
UP.
HAS THE DEMOCRATS AND THE WHITE
HOUSE STANCHED THE BLEEDING ON
THIS OR IS IT STILL THE MASSIVE
LIABILITY THAT THE REPUBLICANS
SAY?
>> THE NUMBERS ARE MOVING A
LITTLE IN THE HEALTHCARE LAW'S
FAVORITE.
STILL I THINK IT WILL BE A ALBA
TROUGHS FOR THE DEMOCRATS.
BUT THE PRESIDENT HAD A MESS,
FIXED IT, MOBILIZED A LOT OF
AUTHORITY AND DID IT.
>> TURNED THE CORNER.
A COMPLETE TURNAROUND?
I DON'T KNOW.
BUT THIS IS A WHITE HOUSE VERY
SHORT AT SMILES AND GONE FROM
FINGER POYNTING TO LIMITED
DYSFUNCTION THIS PAST WEEK.
THE REPUBLICANS ARE IN THE
DANGER OF ROOTING FOR THE
COUNTRY TO FAIL.
THEY LOOK BAD THAT WAY, I MEAN,
AND I WANT TO SAY TO THEM, CHEER
UP REPUBLICANS, EVENTUALLY
THINGS WILL GET WORSE.
THEY COULDN'T HANDLE THIS GOOD
NEWS.
>> Woodruff: WE WANT TO LEAVE
TIME FOR BASEBALL.
OPENING WEEK, HOW IS YOUR TEAM
GOING, MARK?
>> THE RED SOX.
>> Woodruff: I'M SORRY.
THEY HAD THE G LUCK OF
OPENING AGAINST THE NATS BUT
THEY DID LOSE TODAY.
IN BOSTON, THE WORLD CHAMPIONS
OPENED UP TODAY, AND IT WAS
EXCITING AND CLASSIC
OPENING DAY IS REALLY A
MARVELOUS THING.
I MEAN, GENERATIONS OF MALES AND
I GUESS FEMALES HAVE COME UP
WITH COUNTERFEIT EXCUSES --
>> Woodruff: EVEN FEMALES
(LAUGHTER)
>> WE'RE 0 AND 3 SO FAR WITH
THIS MORAL VICTORY.
NONETHELESS, THE IRISH HAMMER
WHO TURNED HIMSELF FROM A
MEDIOCRE SECOND BASEMAN TO
ADEQUATE AND GOOD HITTER, TOOK
THE FIRST TWO DAYS OF GAMES OFF
BECAUSE HIS WIFE DELIVERED A
BABY, NOAH, AND THAT'S HEROIC,
MOELLER VICTORY FOR THE NEW YORK
METS, NAY BE THE ONLY KIND OF
VICTORY WE'RE ACHIEVING BUT SET
A GOOD EXAMPLE.
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE ARE
MALE SPORTSCASTERS OUT THERE
CRITICIZING DANIEL MURPHY AND
SAID HE SHOULDN'T HAVE TAKEN
TIME.
>> A PRO FOOTBALL PLAYER ON THE
AIR SAID HE WAS WRONG ABOUT IT.
I THINK IT WAS BECAUSE IT WAS
OPENING DAY.
IF HE'D OFF TWO GAMES IN
THE MIDDLE OF JULY, WOULDN'T
HAVE MEANT ANYTHING.
BUT OPENING DAY -- BUT HE PICKED
A NO HITTER!
>> Woodruff: I JUST WANT TO
GET BOTH OF YOU ON THE RECORD --
>> IF SOMEBODY TOOK OFF TWO DAYS
IN THE MIDDLE OF JULY, WOULDN'T
HAVE BEEN A BIG THING.
BUT OPENING DAY, I THINK THAT'S
IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE ON THE
SIDE OF THE WIFE OR DIFFERENT OF
NOAH THAT HE HAD BOTH HIS
PARENTS THERE AND HE'LL REMEMBER
IT WELL.
>> I WISH THE "NewsHour" WOULD
HAVE LET ME TAKE OFF WHEN MY
THREE KIDS WERE BORN
(LAUGHTER)
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS,
DAVID BROOKS, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO
AFGHANISTAN, AND A DEADLY ATTACK
ON TWO VETERAN ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOURNALISTS BY AN UNLIKELY
PERPETRATOR, AN AFGHAN POLICE
OFFICER.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SHOOTING
HAPPENED THIS MORNING IN KHOST
PROVINCE.
PHOTOGRAPHER ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS
AND REPORTER KATHY GANNON WERE
TRAVELING WITH ELECTION WORKERS
AND UNDER THE PROTECTION OF
AFGHAN SOLDIERS AND POLWH
ONE OF THE POLICE OFFICERS
APPROACHED THE CAR AND FIRED
SEVERAL SHOTS.
NIEDRINGHAUS WAS REPORTEDLY
KILLED INSTANTLY.
GANNON IS IN STABLE CONDITION AT
AN AFGHAN HOSPITAL.
WE ARE JOINED BY THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS'S SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT
AND EXECUTIVE EDITOR KATHLEEN
CARROLL.
FIRST OF ALL, DO YOU HAVE ANY
UPDATE ON THE HEALTH OF KATHY
GANNON?
>> WELL, SHE'S HAD SOME
SURGERIES AND WE ARE OPTIMISTIC
RECOVERY, BUT SHE'S
STILL BEING TREATED AND THAT
WILL BE TRUE FOR SOME TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DID YOU
KNOW ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS?
>> ANJA WAS A PHOTOGRAPHER FOR
MOST TO HAVE THE I'M I HAVE BEEN
EDITOR OF THE A.P., ABOUT 12
YEARS, AND WE WORKED TOGETHER AT
THE OLYMPICS AND ON WAR COVERAGE
AND ON MANY ISSUES, A QUITE
INFECTIOUS PERSONALITY.
IT'S HARD NOT TO BE DRAWN TO
ANJA.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL US A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT
PERSONALITY.
>> PEOPLE HAVE BEEN DESCRIBING
HER ALL DAY IN VARIOUS WAYS,
KIND OF A MAGICAL PIDE PIPER.
ANJA COVERED MANY DREADFUL
THINGS THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF
HER PHOTOGRAPHY CAREER, WARS IN
EVERY PLACE THEY EXISTED FROM
THE '90s ON, BUT ALSO SPORTING
EVENTS AND EVERYDAY LIFE.
WHAT WAS WONDERFUL ABOUT ANJA IS
THAT SHE FOUND GRACE AND CALM
AND ORDINARY HUMAN BEHAVIOR IN
THE FACE OF SOME OF THE WORSE
SITUATIONS LIFE HAS TO OFFER.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IS THAT
WHAT THE PULITZER COMMITTEE OR
OTHER PEOPLE AROUND THE A.P. AND
THE WORLD SAW ABOUT HER
PICTURES?
WHAT ABOUT HER PICTURES MADE
THEM SO SPECIAL TO YOU SOME.
>> ANJA WAS A VERY OPEN PERSON
AND SHE WAS OPEN TO LIFE AND
OPEN TO NEW PEOPLE AND EVERYBODY
WILL TELL YOU SHE HAD THE MOST
WONDERFUL LAUGH, AND IT WAS JUST
THE FIRST THING YOU NOTICED
ABOUT HER.
AND THE PEOPLE SHE WAS
PHOTOGRAPHING, SHE WAS OPEN TO
THEM AS WELL, AND I THINK THAT
SHOWED IN HER WORK.
IT HAD -- IT PULLED YOU IN
BECAUSE YOU WERE INVITED BY ANJA
TO EXPERIENCE WHAT SHE HAD
EXPERIENCED AND TO SEE THESE
PEOPLE ON THEIR OWN TERMS, NOT
AS ICONS OF SOME HORRIBLE
CONFLICT, BUT ORDINARY PEOPLE
WHO HAD BEEN THRUST INTO
TERRIBLE CIRCUMSTANCES AND WERE
STILL FINDING A WAY TO HAVE A
BIRTHDAY PARTY OR A PLACE TO
PLAY ON A BATTLEGROUND OR A
CIGARETTE IN A QUIET CORNER OF A
TERRIBLE FIELD.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
SHE WASN'T JUST A WAR
CORRESPONDENT, SHE HAS SEVERAL
IMAGES IN THE FIELD.
SHE HAS THE FLACK JACKET ON,
EMBEDDED WITH TROOPS, COVERING
LIBYA, BUT SHE HAS GREAT
PHOTOGRAPHS OF, SAY, I CONK
RAFAEL NADAL.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
A FAVORITE STORY ABOUT ANJA IS
AT THE BEIJING OLYMPICS IN A
RACE AND THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF
PHOTOGRAPHERS THERE, ANJA WAS
THERE BUT SHE SET UP FIVE CAMERA
BODIES ON A PIECE OF WOOD AND
AIMED EACH CAMERA AT A LANE AND
SHE OPERATED IT WITH A WIRELESS
DEVICE WITH HER FOOT SO THAT SHE
WAS GOING TO PHOTOGRAPH HIM WITH
THE CAMERA IN HER HAND AND ALSO
FIVE CAMERAS OPERATED BY HER
TOE.
IT WAS PRETTY AMAZING.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT IS
AMAZING.
WE'RE HEADING INTO TOMORROW'S
ELECTION IN AFGHANISTAN.
YOU HAVE TO BE THINKING AS A
NEWS ORGANIZATION YOU'VE STILL
GOT PEOPLE THERE.
DOES WHAT HAPPENED CHANGE YOUR
PLANS FOR COVERAGE?
>> WELL, THROUGHOUT THE COURSE
OF THE HISTORY OF THE A.P.,
WE'VE HAD LOSSES AS BAD AS THE
ONE WE SUFFERED TODAY YET WE
STILL COVER THE STORIES.
WE'RE NOT CAVALIER ABOUT THE
SAFETY THREATS AND WE SPEND ALL
OUR TIME, I DO PERSONALLY AND
THE STAFF HERE AND OUR SECURITY
TEAMS, FOCUSING ON HOW WE CAN DO
OUR JOBS SAFELY.
BUT WE NEVER GO AWAY.
THE STORY OF AFGHANISTAN IS
IMPORTANT AND WE WILL STILL BE
THERE.
>> ARE THERE SPECIFIC TOPICS
THAT ANJA AND KATHY LIKE TO
COVER, ESPECIALLY CONSIDERING
HOW LONG THEY HAVE BEEN WORKING
IN AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN?
>> I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THEIR
WORK WHAT YOU FIND IS EACH OF
THEM HAD A PASSION FOR OUR
COUNTRY THAT PEOPLE WANTED TO
FORGET AND OFTEN DID FORGET, OR
WANTED TO DISMISS AND OFTEN DID
DISMISS.
THEY EACH FOUND IN A DIFFERENT
WAY SOMETHING COMPELLING ABOUT
AFGHANISTAN AND THEY DIDN'T WANT
THE WORLD TO FORGET OR REJECT
THIS PLACE, AND IT WASN'T JUST
THE CONFLICT AND IT WASN'T THE
POLITICS.
IT WAS THE PEOPLE AND THEIR
STRUGGLES AND THEIR JOYS AND THE
SHEER ORDINARINESS OF LIFE THAT
WAS POSSIBLE IN A BEAUTIFUL BUT
SOMETIMES VERY TRAGIC PLACE.
>> ALL RIGHT, KATHLEEN CARROLL
FROM THE ASSOCIATED PRESS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT SAID THE
ECONOMY ADDED 192,000 JOBS IN
MARCH, AND HAS NOW RECOVERED ALL
THE JOBS LOST IN THE RECESSION.
ARMY OFFICIALS AT FORT HOOD,
TEXAS, SAID THEY NOW BELIEVE AN
ARGUMENT, NOT MENTAL ILLNESS, IS
WHAT SET OFF WEDNESDAY'S
SHOOTINGS.
AND AFGHANS MADE READY FOR
TOMORROW'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
IN THE FACE OF TALIBAN THREATS
TO ATTACK VOTERS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW-- EVER WONDER WHAT MEDIEVAL
LITERATURE SCHOLARS SEE IN HBO'S
HIT SERIES "GAME OF THRONES?"
YOU CAN HEAR ABOUT CHAUCER AND
KING ARTHUR ON OUR "ART BEAT"
PAGE.
ALSO ON OUR ARTS PAGE, A TRIBUTE
TO KURT COBAIN ON THE 20TH
ANNIVERSARY OF HIS DEATH.
WE ASKED MUSICIANS, RADIO HOSTS,
AND PRODUCERS TO REFLECT ON
NIRVANA'S LEGACY.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW.
>> Ifill: TONIGHT, TRIPLE
THREATS, HOW THE SUPREME COURT,
CONGRESS AND THE WHITE HOUSE ALL
CONSPIRE TO REMIND US OF THE
ENTANGLEMENTS OF MONEY, POLITICS
AND POWER.
THAT'S LATER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: ON TOMORROW'S
EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
CORRESPONDENT STACEY TISDALE
LOOKS AT THE WIDE RANGE OF TAX
PREPARERS AS APRIL 15 FAST
APPROACHES.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT FROM HER
REPORT.
ANYBODY TODAY CAN HANG UP A
SHINGLE AND BE A TAX RETURN
PREPARER.
>> NINA OLSON IS THE NATIONAL
TAX PREPARER ADVOCATE, AN
INDEPENDENT OFFICE CREATED BY
CONGRESS TO REPRESENT THE VOICE
OF THE TAXPAYER INSIDE THE
I.R.S.
>> IF YOU GET YOUR HAIRCUT, IF
YOU GO TO A LOCKSMITH, THERE'S
ALL SORTS OF PROFESSIONAL
CERTIFICATIONS, BUT NOT FOR
RETURN PREPARATION.
>> SO THERE'S NO EXAM TO PASS?
NO EXAM.
REQUIREMENT YOU HAVE TO BE
EDUCATED ON TAX LAW?
>> NOPE, YOU CAN JUST HANG UP
YOUR SHINGLE OR NOT, JUST DO IT
ON YOUR KITCHEN TABLE.
WE ARE AT OUR PERIL, WE ARE
HARMING TAXPAYERS BY NOT
INSISTING THESE PEOPLE HAVE A
BASING LEVEL OF COMPETENCY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY WITH AN
AFGHAN ELECTION UPDATE, PLUS
WHAT'S DEVASTATING MOOSE HERDS
IN THE NORTHEASTERN U.S.?
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.